#notes #books #understandingDS #introduction

definition

what is a distributed system
```
a group of nodes exchanging messages and communicating links to achieve some tasks.
```

handling the scale and the distributed nature warrants to tackle some challenges

## Communication

1. how the nodes communicate over the network? 
2. how are request/ response represented?
3. how to deal with faulty network or outages
4. how to guarantee, the data stays intact.

Further reading

[The Law of Leaky Abstractions](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2002/11/11/the-law-of-leaky-abstractions/#:~:text=This%20is%20but%20one%20example,a%20little%2C%20sometimes%20a%20lot.)

this states the more abstractions you add on a system, the more chances of leakage through the edge cases

it has a lot of good examples, but one thing that stands out is in C++ there is no inherent string class, its an abstraction for a char array for char*s
so while we can do something like str + "bar", we cant attempt "foo" + "bar"

in short it says that when you invent a whizzy abstract this code tool, its better to actually learn the basics and the edge cases before wholly dependent on it

## Coordination

1. As the name suggest, how to make two node converge on solving a single task
2. This essentially is brought down on communication as well
3. Problem is very well described by the [two general problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two_Generals%27_Problem)

## Scalability

1. How efficiently your system can handle load ?
2. What is the capacity of the system / architecture?
3. How to do you scale up during a throughput burst, temporary increase

## Resiliency

1. Can the the system do its job even when failure(s) happen ?
2. Whats the availability / uptime / downtime impacted in this case. 
3. [Uptime Calculator](https://uptime.is/)

## Maintainability

1. Is the System extensible  / modifiable ?
2.  How do you ensure the system health / perform basic sanity checks?





In short a distributed system , nodes connect through IPC (inter process communication). These nodes / services communicate through API.

Which can be 
Internal Adapter, provides certain services to users
Outbound adapters, performs operation on other service eg queues, database
